>> Jason Rodriguez: So the first thing we
wanna do is to reset some of that default
email client behavior.
So there's a couple of things
we're gonna look at here,
is some Microsoft Office behavior.
That just kind of comes by way
of using something like Outlook.
Then some browser and
client default behavior.
And then the main thing though,
is disabling, not disabling,
but overriding any auto-linking behavior
that certain mobile clients especially
will add into our email campaigns,
if we don't account for it.
So a good example of this
is this email campaign.
You can see that it's using that
dark background and then white text.
But we have a mobile client, I think
this screenshot was from Apple Mail.
But you can see that it's
auto-linking things like days,
that Thursday through Sunday, or Monday
through Wednesday, those dates in there.
You'll see this with addresses
in your email campaigns,
telephone numbers,
times, things like that.
So it's helpful behavior because
they want you to use this
across your operating system.
So they see a date, they want you
to make a calendar event for it.
They see a phone number,
they want you to call that number.
They see an address, they want you
to use maps to look up that address.
So it's a really helpful, cool user
feature, but it causes a lot of problems,
really in two areas,
one is from a design perspective.
A lot of times, that doesn't go along with
the branding or the style guidelines for
our email campaigns.
But more importantly, it causes really
big accessibility issues like this.
So you can't really see that dark
text on that dark background.
So anybody that can't really
see that really low contrast,
which is a lot of people.
I have contrast issues,
this is very hard for me to read.
Or if you're using a mobile
device with a dim screen,
then that's gonna be even worse.
We wanna make sure our emails are always
as accessible as possible, and
contrast is a big part of that.
So we don't wanna disable this
behavior because it is helpful for
a lot of people that wanna take
advantage of that information.
But we do wanna override that
styling on our email campaigns,
to make sure that whatever they do link
will just inherit whatever that parent
styling happens to be,
that original styling.
So let's look at what that actually
looks like in practice, so
we have our starter email here.
The first thing we're gonna do is add some
CSS to take care of all those resets.
So I have a snippet here,
I'm gonna expand.
>> Jason Rodriguez: So we'll see a couple
of things that were added up in here.
This is stuff that's
essentially just boilerplate,
that we add to all of our email campaigns,
that do a couple of things.
So these client-specific styles
are essentially to account for
Microsoft Office products.
So you can see we're using this
ms prefix here to make sure
that Microsoft Office will
not adjust our text sizing.
They won't shrink or
enlarge things unless we want them to.
Same thing for webkit, that's just
to make sure they do the same thing.
Sometimes they will try to
adjust our text settings.
If you're using anything less than font
size of 14 pixels on iOS, then they
will automatically bump that up to 14
pixels, so this helps account for that.
So if you do need really little copy,
which I don't as rule of thumb recommend,
you wanna make sure all of your copy
is readable, even those disclaimers,
that footer information.
You should be using something bigger 14
pixels, but if you need something small
for whatever reason, then that'll help
make sure that both Apple Mail and
then Microsoft don't adjust that.
These tables, since we do use tables and
table cells very heavily in email design,
Microsoft likes to add some spacing
around those tables by default.
So using this mso-table-lspace and
table-rspace properties, and
setting that to 0 points helps us to make
sure that they don't add that spacing
around our tables.
And then the images, we just wanna make
sure that when we're scaling images,
a lot of times, we'll be using
what are called retina images.
Which are larger images
that are scaled down,
to make sure that they display
really clearly on high DPI screens.
If you're doing that,
sometimes in different Outlook clients,
that interpolation is a little bit off,
so things look a little bit fuzzy, or
introduce some artifacts.
So if you set it to bicubic for
that interpolation mode,
then it helps take care of those problems.
Just general resets, we're again just
taking care of some defaults that
different browsers and different
rendering engines like to add in there.
For images, we wanna make sure that we
don't have borders around that unless we
want that on the image itself, and
then we'll apply that to the image tag.
And then we wanna make sure of the height,
and
the height is just autosizing, so
it maintains that aspect ratio.
line-height, we like to put just so
there's not different spacing and
stuff added that we don't intend,
outline's similar to border.
And then text-decoration, again,
helps take care of any underlining on
images that happen to be linked
that we don't want to happen.
The tables, we want to generally make sure
that our borders collapse because we don't
want those table cell outlines.
And that just helps take care of that for
us by default.
If you do want something like
that border for your table,
if you have some tabular data or some
list of things, that's really common in
receipt-type emails,
then you can set that on the table itself.
But if you're just using tables for
layouts and that structural component of
emails, we don't generally want those
borders, we wanna rip them out of there.
And then again, similar to what
we do in line, we have body,
we set the heights 100%.
So if we're using any background colors,
then it'll hopefully render
properly across email clients.
And then reset things like the margin and
the padding and the width too,
to make sure that our
document renders as intended.
We don't get all that added spacing or
anything like that,
depending on what email
client you're using.
So those blue links we were talking about,
it used to be that you had
to essentially code in a little
bit of HTML to take care of that.
So if you had something
like some suspect text, so
you have your address in the footer of
your email, you think it's gonna be
auto-linked because it probably will,
then you would wrap that in a span.
And then you would target something like
span, whatever that class happens to be,
and then the child anchor tag
that's added in there, and
then you override those colors.
But somebody smarter than me discovered
that Apple actually adds this attribute
to those anchor tags,
this x-apple-data-detectors.
And that's how they tell and
provide that auto-linking behavior.
So we can just target any anchor tags
with that x-apple-data-detectors
attribute added to it.
And then we can just make sure that
everything that they might change
is inherited or
overwritten from what they would have.
And the same thing kind of applies for
Gmail, Gmail does the same thing.
For this one, though,
they do something funky where they
change the HTML to be an underline using
this u tag, that tag instead of HTML.
And then we're using that ID body
that we applied to body to say we're
selecting that body and then any anchor
tags in there to inherit whatever.
That's a weird color,
inherit any of those set
properties that we have on
those anchor tags instead.
Samsung Mail will do similar things.
This has been kinda, they seem to be
pushing updates that will break this
randomly, different updates come
around and this technique works.
Then a month goes by and
that doesn't work, and
then it'll be back a month later.
So I think they're always making
updates to their client, but
they usually add this
MessageViewBody ID to your document.
So then you can just target
that with any anchor tags and
override all their settings.
Later on, we'll look at what CSS
we're gonna be adding in here.
But we'll get into the best place to add
CSS to our emails in just a second here.
Any questions about any of these resets?
>> Jason Rodriguez: No, cool.